Now that we have talked about accepting failure and learning from it, its time we take actions to grow as a better person.The first step towards transformation is setting clear goals and planning on them.Antoine de Saint renownedly said, "A goal without a plan is just a wish" and i could not agree more.Breaking down our goals into actionable steps,creates a roadmap to our desired destination.Let me give an example. As a student,the difference i feel when i plan my assignments and projects compared to when i delay planning on them is huge. When we dont plan on our goals on time we tend to procrastinate and eventually when there is not much time left, we face the fear of failure which becomes reality if we run out of time. This is why only a few people become successful and others don't.As previously explained by sange, SMART goals is the perfect framework for setting goals and backing our goals with plan and action is what ultimately leads us to our destination.

Now, the next step is to surround ourselves with like minded people which, in my opinion, is the most important one.The people who surround us have a phenomenal impact in our lives.The company we keep is a reflection of who we are and where we are heading. As Karl Menniger said, "environment is more important than heredity." Who we become depends more on our environmental conditioning than our genetics. Surrrounding ourselves with like minded people doesnot mean being with people who think exactly like us. It is more about being with people who share common goals and values. When we see people around us working on their dreams, there are high chances of creation of a sense of accountability in us which again helps us to move forward in our journey.

Before moving on to the next point, let me ask you all a question, I know each of us have dreams and aspirations in life and undoubtedly, we have individuals we admire and look up to for inspiration.It maybe Elon Musk, or Cristiano Ronaldo, or the courageous Malala Yousafzai. But have we ever heard any of these individuals claim that they reached their peak without facing struggles or failures? No, right? The problem lies in our tendency to only see their successes, and not the challenges and hurdles they faced to get there.We often find ourselves so much fixated on the result that we loose our focus from the process.And this picture perfectly explains my point. The first individual,despite being closer to success, hinders his own progress due his thought process. He stops himself just before reaching his goal.Whereas, the second person steadily progresses towards his destination by prioritizing the process over the outcome.Success is not solely determined by the end result. By fully commiting ourselves to each step of our journey, we develop resilience, learn from setbacks, and ultimately grow out to become a better individual.

Persistence is simply the ability to continue doing something despite the challenges faced in the process.The road to our goals is rarely smooth; obstacles and failures are unavoidable. However, it's the ability to endure through challenges and to persist despite setbacks, that separates the successful from the rest.Thomas Edison famously said ,"I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work". Despite facing countless setbacks, he tried until he achieved success. His story reminds us of how crucial it is to keep going when things get tough.

There simply no path without failure that leads to success. And remember, as Paulo Coelho said,"The secret of life,though,is to fall seven times and to get up eight times.". So let's embrace failure as a stepping stone towards our success and not let it stop us. Because in the end, it's not the failures that define us, it how we respond to them.Failure is not the opposite of success, rather it is the crown of success.



































